My name is Courtney Grandy.
I am a resource teacher
at George Street Middle School, formerly
a grade seven math teacher.
I am here to talk about teaching
through stations in the math classroom.
So when you are
covering any sort of topic,
you can plan a lot of different practice
activities that are quick and easy,
to prep and to plan.
And you have different activities at each
different station area in your room.
So it provides students
with a lot of different variety of things.
So one station might be a physical puzzle,
putting different questions and answers
together to form a puzzle.
Another station could be a quick,
worksheet that you work on.
Different questions on there
with the group.
Another station could be
that you're at a group with the teacher.
They're walking you through a mini lesson.
Instead of being a full lesson
with the whole class,
another station could be using whiteboard
materials.
And another station
could just be task cards. And
there's so many different other activities
you can fall into the mix there.
But it's really helpful for students
to see multiple different representations
of the same topic in the same concept,
and to practice it
in a lot of different ways.
It's helpful for the students
because it does provide some movement
as you move from station to station.
It does provide some structure.
So when you are at your station,
there's always an instruction
page to follow so that you can see
exactly what the activity is
and what the expectation is.
It does provide for group work.
It does provide for different leveled
activities to happen
when students come to the teacher station.
The mini lesson might be different
from group to group,
so you might have a group of high fliers
come to you at one point where
you might be doing some kind of bonus
activity or enrichment activity with them,
but the next group coming through
might be a group of students
on adjusted plans, and maybe you're
just looking at the basics with them.
So I find when students get to see
a concept in multiple different ways,
it does allow them to see real world
applications of things.
It does allow them to see
just the basic application of things.
And seeing it in a variety of
different ways really does make it stick.
And I do find that
students have more success
the more ways that they can see
the one topic I would suggest
to practice the expectations
with students first.
I usually in the first week of school,
would have students
rotate through stations
that were really low risk.
So it could just be moving through
a math survey to see how we like math.
The next station
could just be a tangram puzzle.
The next station could just be,
different little math games
that you have available in your classroom.
So it's just a way to teach students
how to move through stations
and what the expectations are.
And then you can start layering in your,
content stations
in your subject specific stations.
I do find the practice
first is very important.
I do find when you're doing stations, it
is helpful to reach out to your SS team.
There were multiple times that I would
reach out to my resource teacher
when I was in the classroom or my admin,
and just give them the heads up.
I'm going
to be running stations on this day.
If you are available to come in
and help out, great.
And having an adult at each station,
if possible was very helpful.
But if you don't have that extra support,
then doing that practice ahead of time
will absolutely help that person.